- Did a demo of implementing todo list.



- Create component that lets us list out items on a TODO list
	- components project application state to user
- Add buttons, and other stuff to interact with the TODO list among other thing
- Create another component to enter in new TODO items.

- When back, create new feature for application and do some testing

[[Cyprus]]


*Continuous Integration*
- Part of devops
	- Also continuous deployment
	- Every day, once a day, push code to repo
		- Idea of Pipelines
		- Everything needs to be working code, even if it can't be deployed yet.
			- Can we build it?
			- Testing
				- unit tests
				- component tests (integration test)
				- security
				- compliance
		- If makes it through CI portion, then goes to CD portion.
*Continuous Delivery*
- Delivery - we deliver a container image to a registry that COULD be used in production
- Deployment - we actually deploy the software and have it running in production


- Best to add new stuff without changing existing things in an application
	- If new business requirement, want to make that change without changing the existing code that the rest of the codebase relies on.
	- Our list component, we added it to project and used testing tool (Cyprus) to just text THAT thing in isolation from the rest of the application.
		- Don't want to make changes to things until you are ready to plug it in.
		- To click on the button and have it change between later to now to waiting to completed to later, that should not be within the component
		- There is some API out there that stores this information in a database
		- When you make changes in the client application, you need to change it at the server as well.
			- Trick to making this easy to deal with is make your components dumb.


*Developer Testing vs Traditional Software Testing*
- Developer testing:
	- Tests we write as we write our code
	- We often have to write tests for code that doesn't exist yet
	- We use the tests to verify the code we are writing as we go.
		- Need to write tests and expect things to get back.
		- What if a service blows up? You can write tests if things blow up and there is invalid data
			- Like if someone's auth token is revoked and they are no longer a customer in the middle of a transaction
			- Need to be able to test that at a low level
- Traditional Software Testing
	- Have everything setup,



DevOps - "Feedback Loops"
- Cybernetics - "ship's Helmsman" in greek. - "Kubernetes"
- Inner Loop
	- Everything that happens on your machine while you are doing development
		- Want as much feedback as possible so you can always make sure you didn't break something later on.
- Outer Loop
	- Everything that happens beyond that point. (when you push it to the repo, etc)

Application Developers
- Balance fast with good
- Getting code in front of users quickly = big cash
- Getting code in front of users that sucks costs us money
- *"Hypothesis Driven Development"*
	- Only use around other developers, business ppl might freak out lmao
	- If long times around version of software, then the product owner must take a guess of what the customers will want next
		- What should we build next? What will be in the next version of the software?
	- "That looks cool! What are the first one or two things we can put out there right now and get feedback from our customers?"
		- First 3 things done, and customers were v satisfied. No need to build the other 47 parts of the program since customers loved the first 3.


- Need to care about accessibility