- Basic angular project setup
- NPM tutorial
- Visual Studio setup + shortcuts
- Github
- More Angular architecture and development



- We got into our VMs
- Created multi-desktop
	- `ctrl + windows + arrow keys` to quickly go between desktops. 
	- Back ticks to do that cool thing above 
- Notes stored in `dev/course-materials/Notes
 
- Just following him along. He will give us the excalidraw notes.
	- Angular frontend
	- (BFF) backend for frontend: .NET Core and API
	- Static server for Angular app (Nginx)

- Angular is the default to make it easy to transfer new developers to different projects. Good for making things run in a web browser.
	- Angular is very opinionated
	- The project structure, naming conventions, etc. are fairly consistent from one application to another.
	- React is good because everything is tweakable. A lot more customization.
	- Angular provides a fairly similar experience for every application.
		- Angular has UI library called CoreUI. Has a date-picker that has the same thing for across all the projects.

- Lot of time already have a bunch of the services created. Have some features we need to create though just to learn
	- Then aggregate them 
	- Features:
		- Sign on
		- Create a list
			- Multiple lists.
			- e.g. grocery list
			- e.g. stuff to get from the Hardware store 
			- e.g. Stuff to do around the house
		- Add things to the list
			- Change the status of things on their lists
				- Later -> now -> blocked/waiting -> completed
	- Want to build as much as we can inside of this front-end angular application.

- As we build stuff on angular application, need to figure out stuff one at a time
	- Smart small and build up.

* *Visual Studio Code* #vs
	* Install Angular addon
	* Peacock
	* `ctrl+shift+p` to open options menu in VSCode
	* `ctrl+backtick`to pull up terminal/put away

*To Create an Angular Application* #angular
- Angular Command Line Interface (Angular CLI) [Angular - CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.io/cli)
	- Install it with:
		- `npm install --global @angular/cli@latest
		- `npm i -g @angular/cli@latest`
			- If you leave latest off, it assumes latest version. Otherwise can specify version after @
		- `ng new app --standalone --skip-git --skiptests`
			- Yes to routing
			- default css
		- Can always have a browser open that shows the current app
			- `ng serve -o`
				- the -o makes it open automatically for you
				- Must run in the folder with angular app
- Windows Terminal 
	- CMD and Powershell #resources
	- NPM is faster on unix than windows
	`pwd` -> Print working directory
- TCP Port? #question


- *Angular File Structure* #angular 
	- app.component.html has some stuff defined in there
		- Make sure to import components in here
	- Header.component.ts
		- Component file is structured  with
		- `export class HeaderComponent`
		- Before that component must be defined
			- Component must be imported from Angular
				- `import { Component } from "@angular/core";`
				- Define component as `standalone: true`


When back: Use tailwind to make UI design a little better. Start back at ~1:47pm



- Github setup #git
	- To setup github CLI:
		- `gh auth login`
		- `git config --global user.name "Alex Clayton"`
		- `git config --global user.email "alexander_clayton@progressive.com"`
	- To Create new github project
		- `git init
		- `git add .` to add all stuff into it
		- `git commit -m "Initial"` To create a commit of it
		- `gh repo create` and follow that
	- You can automatically commit within VSCode. #vs


- Angular #angular 
	- NOT for creating websites or webpages
	- This is used for creating applications that download and build within a web browser
	- Written in Typescript #ts
		- Typescript compiles to JavaScript
		- TypeScript wants to address how JavaScript can change types for a variable.
		- Gets rid of lots of requirement for testing
	- Tool for creating User Interfaces
	- All file names MUST be undercase #qa

	- *Component*
		- A typescript class
		- A template
		- Both of these are compiled and sent to the browser
	-  *A component has two jobs:*
		- Accurately project the application *state*
			- State: The value of all meaningful data NOW.
		- Provide affordances through which the user can interact with the application
			- A component 
		- Generate components by creating typescript class #ts
	- *Page*
		- Pages are things you route to
		- Components are other things


- Pep talk
	- once you're in, we're all in together.
	- Ask all the questions.
	- Don't make people uncomfortable. Do not mess with, bypass, or do anything to get yourself into trouble with security here.
	- They will give you lots of time to get you to where you need to be. You always need to be asking questions. 
		- If your mentor doesn't hear from you, they will assume you are doing fine. So if you are stuck 3 days later, then you are screwed.
		- Always have a little bit of code prepared. Good devs can show you what is wrong and where you went wrong with your thinking.

- Tailwind
	- `npm install -D tailwindcss postcss autoprefixer @tailwindcss/forms @tailwindcss/typography daisyui
	- `npx tailwindcss init` This creates the 
	- What it does:
		- Normalizes all headers to same size
		- Adds classes
	- TODO FOR IT 
		- Make sure to fill in style.css
		- Make sure to add it to style.css under plugins
		- Make sure to add data-theme under index.html